
Changes in Version 0.9-51

  o there were errors on startup with some types of plots (e.g. splom()),
    caused by trying to detect data types for time.mode = NA. Now uses try().

  o playwith() failed when given a call with no arguments.

Changes in Version 0.9-50

  o implemented session history: playwith windows load and save history.
    (based on a suggestion from Liviu Andronic). See ?playwith.history

  o row names and covariate values can now be added as labels (right-click).

  o added support for sp package: SpatialPoints and SpatialPointsDataFrame.

  o try as.data.frame() on the first call argument to get covariates.

  o always turn off devAskNewPage, e.g. from demo(), because of redraws.

  o fixed demo("clusterApp"), the parallel() function had stopped working.

  o fixed showGrobsBB() and identifyGrob(), was not working for several
    types of grobs. Note: these will be moved to gridExtra package soon.

Changes in Version 0.9-45

  o fixed mouse click events under Linux - was interpreted as Alt click
    when NumLock was active (thanks to Liviu Andronic and Trey Greer).

  o 'autoplay' detects plots from Rcmdr (thanks to Liviu Andronic).

  o playwith.options("time.mode") now defaults to NA, i.e. automatic.
    Its previous default was FALSE.

  o "grob inspector" etc now pads bounding boxes, so it is possible to
    click on straight lines.

  o eliminated "ignoring non-pairlist attributes" warnings.

  o changed select.list() to the cross-platform menu() in autoplay.

Changes in Version 0.9-44

  o Added a "Stop" action to interrupt plotting.

  o Added 'preplot.actions' argument to playwith().

  o A custom 'handler' function can be specified for 'parameters' widgets.

  o Improved demo("clusterApp").

  o Brushing a single data point (line) in a parallel plot now works.

  o "Select from table" to identify points now works in more cases.

  o New function identifyGrob(), returns names of clicked grid-objects.

Changes in Version 0.9-43

  o Fixed bug that caused annotations outside the plot area to fail.

Changes in Version 0.9-42

  o Fixed "protection stack overflow" triggered by resizing grid plots.

  o "Full scale" tools now work with Lattice's "free" scales.

  o Page annotations are now inside Lattice's toplevel viewport.

  o Added a Theme menu for Lattice themes (moved out from Style menu).

Changes in Version 0.9-40

  o Split Latticist out into a new package 'latticist'.

  o Handles plots from the 'vcd' package without falling over.

  o Detects pages of a Lattice plot when 'layout' arg is missing.

Changes in Version 0.9-32

  o Select IDs from Table works correctly when columns are sorted.

  o Latticist reorders factor levels again (when reorder = TRUE),
    and variable expressions involving "dat" have been fixed.

Changes in Version 0.9-31

  o Latticist API abstracted into functions latticistParse() and
    latticistCompose(); the function latticist() is purely a GUI.

  o Support for more plots via plotCoords and case.names methods.

  o New tools "Pan" (scroll), "Line", "Rect".

  o "Undo" is now available in more cases, and is part of the API.

  o Changed some click actions and keyboard shortcuts.

  o "Point / line style" dialog box.

  o Labels menu: "Select from table" now implemented.

  o Fixed initial window size.

  o Editing text fields in "Plot Settings" is now detected even
    when <Enter> is not pressed.

  o Fixed occasional freeze-up of latticist.

  o "Set axis labels..." button in Plot Settings (Lattice only).

  o Zoom out applies to x-axis only in "time mode".

Changes in Version 0.9-21

  o Fixed style shortcuts setting region$col palette.

  o Fixed element 'update.action' in tool specification lists.

  o Latticist: dodge bug in latticeExtra::marginal.plot().

Changes in Version 0.9-20

  o Package overhaul! Menus, new tools, new infrastructure, etc.
    Note that playwith() arguments and playwith.options have changed.

  o Plot Settings overhaul, allows scales and axes to be customised.

  o latticeStyleGUI(), a stand-alone function to edit the lattice theme.

  o latticist supports a depth variable (3D) and a color covariate.
    Also produces better plots with multiple categoricals.

Changes in Version 0.9-11

  o latticist uses hexbinplot, and many other changes.

  o playwith() now returns the playState object, not the plot result.

  o revised and expanded all examples in help("playwith").

  o common errors in playwith and latticist are caught and shown in
    a dialog box (unless playwith.options(catch.errors = FALSE)).
    On Linux this avoids killing R with "stack smashing detected".

  o call history (back/forward buttons) works correctly.

  o improved local cacheing of objects appearing in the plot call.
    now stores local functions as well as objects, and works better.

  o re-used playwith windows are resized to account for toolbars etc.

  o grob inspector tool allows removing grobs (but note bug in 'grid').

  o fixed zooming with lattice categorical scales (again).

Changes in Version 0.9-10

  o grob inspector tool (currently only shows str() of grobs).

  o moved marginals() and c.trellis() into latticeExtra package.

  o plot settings dialog now does not fail for lattice plots
    where scales="free".

  o lattice theme selector now includes an option for custom.theme()
    from latticeExtra.

Changes in Version 0.9-9

  o fix bug when tooltips are turned on: this runs the GTK Main Loop,
    and sometimes when the window was closed it was not stopped,
    freezing the R terminal.

  o fix bug in parameter slider ("Invalid property value").

  o make sliders and scrollbars update continuously (but constrained
    by plot redrawing), rather than only on mouse button release.

Changes in Version 0.9-8

  o compatability with older versions of RGtk2.

  o draw x scales in marginals().

Changes in Version 0.9-7

  o click on plot makes a pop-up menu with labels for nearby points.
    Select one to add that label to the plot.

  o clicks on plot avoid looking up data points unless neccessary.

  o reorder factor levels only once in latticist(), which removes
    lots of ugly reorderByFreq() from the plot calls.

  o latticist preloads some useful variable expressions and subsets.

  o latticist converts integers with only 1 or 2 levels to factor.

  o use shingle levels for labels in strips and on axes.

  o latticist gives more error messages in dialog boxes.

  o latticist passes labels argument to playwith(), which stops it
    from trying to guess labels from the plot call each time.

Changes in Version 0.9-6

  o use of equal.count and cutEq in latticist.

  o use of useOuterStrips and layout in latticist.

Changes in Version 0.9-5

  o marginals()

  o reorderByFreq()

  o fix click-and-hold identify, to account for lattice subscripts.

  o playGetIDs() now returns subscripts into original data from
    multi-panel lattice plots (was indexing data in each panel).
    (And the internal representation is now as lattice subscripts).

Changes in Version 0.9-4

  o latticist!

  o callArg gains a logical 'eval' argument.

  o fix error when using a single argument that is a formula.

  o fix error when identifying points with univariate lattice
    plots (e.g. data$x is NULL).

  o remove effect of 'title' on choosing replacement device.

Changes in Version 0.9-3

  o recognise un-named "data" argument to formula methods
    such as plot.formula, boxplot.formula.

Changes in Version 0.9-2

  o tooltips show labels for points when click and hold mouse button.

  o improvements to basic device mode (options(device="playwith")):
    preview button in annotation tool now works; and there is an
    "undo annotation" tool, allowing last annotation to be removed.
    (still some problems with mixing base and grid graphics).

  o improved code for guessing xy coordinates and labels.

  o improved code for guessing main function (assume "plot" if found).

Changes in Version 0.9-1

  o cairoDevice package in Depends rather than Imports, since
    it sets options(device="Cairo"), which is bad if not attached!

Changes in Version 0.9-0

  o user settings: playwith.options / playwith.getOption.

Changes in Version 0.8-57

  o now works on Linux!
    (had problems related to event loop -- sizing widgets etc).

  o new function playGetIDs() gives currently identified points.

  o device size, rather than window size, can now be specifed.
    This matches other devices. Also pointsize can now be set.

  o option to show tooltips for toolbar buttons (uses gtkMain()).

  o mouse clicks better distinguished from drags: time <= 1/4 sec.

  o xlim/ylim and time mode now handles date-time classes better,
    including "yearmon" and "yearqtr" from the zoo package.

  o zooming now tries to account for axis padding.

  o plot call is now deparsed without showAttributes option (for
    clarity). Call objects are used to maintain date time classes.

  o "clear" button now shows a graphical dialog under linux.

  o warning about lattice subscripts now checks the panelArgs
    (it was warning spuriously before, eg xyplot.zoo).

  o more use of locks to try to avoid multi-thread conflicts.

  o attempt to set GTK tooltips is now a *silent* try(), again.

  o zoom and identify tools check par("mfrow") in case it is a
    multi-figure base graphics plot, and omit themselves if so.

Changes in Version 0.8-56

  o arguments to `parameters` can use I() to force a spinbutton
    rather than slider.

Changes in Version 0.8-55

  o argument `parameters`: automatically constructs
    widgets to control parameter values appearing in the call.

  o default action when dragging on the plot is zoom.
    default action on right-click is zoomout.

  o restrict zooming to x axis in time.mode
    only if a time.vector was not specified.

  o whether to start in time.mode is determined by looking at
    the data: TRUE if the x data has a 'ts' or 'zoo' class.

  o concept of the "main function" which accepts typical plot
    arguments (xlim, ylim, main, etc) -- not necessarily the
    top-level call. By default, a depth-first search is used
    to find a function that accepts `xlim` or `...`.

  o use of relevant lattice plots without subscripts=TRUE
    will give a warning that identified points may be wrong.

  o callArg() now uses standard evaluation by default, rather than
    quoting its argument. Old code will need to be changed!

  o use RGtk2 rather than gWidgets for edit.call and edit.annotations
    because gWidgets is very slow.

  o reasonable guess for data points and labels with ggplot::qplot()

  o enabled pretty ggplot2 plots (print.ggplot with pretty=TRUE)
    if using grid package version >= 2.7
    (older versions had a problem with viewports being popped).

  o code reorganisation: split tools into separate files; ESS style.

